 Explain the difference between Spring-MVC and Spring Boot?
 ans--Spring Boot vs. Spring MVC
Spring Boot: To quickly bootstrap and start developing or building Spring-based applications, Spring Boot is easy to use. A lot of boilerplate code is avoided or reduced by using this framework. Behind the scenes, a huge amount of complexities are hidden by this framework. For this reason, the developers can get started quickly and develop the Spring Based softwares or applications with ease.

Spring MVC: Spring MVC is a Web MVC framework for developing or building web applications. It contains many configuration files for various capabilities. Spring MVC is an HTTP-oriented web application development framework.

Spring Boot and Spring MVC exist for different purposes.

Now let us discuss some of the primary differences between Spring Boot and Spring MVC.

Basis 
Spring Boot
Spring MVC
Definition

Spring Boot is considered a module of the Spring framework for packaging the Spring-based application with sensible defaults.

Spring MVC is considered to be the model view controller-based web framework under the Spring framework.

Use

For building a Spring-powered framework, default configurations are provided by it.

For building web applications, ready-to-use features are provided by it.

Configurations

Developers do not need to build the configurations manually.

In Spring MVC, the configurations are required to be built manually. 

Dependencies

The boilerplate code is avoided, and the dependencies are wrapped together in a single unit.

Each dependency is specified separately by it.

Deployment Descriptor

A deployment descriptor is not required in the case of Spring Boot.

A deployment descriptor is required in the case of Spring MVC.

Required time

It is very efficient to use. The development time is reduced with this framework, thereby increasing the productivity of engineers.

In the case of Spring MVC, much more time is required for achieving the same. 

Processing

Powerful batch processing is  provided by it.

Powerful batch processing is not provided by it.

Layers and Components

There are four types of presentation layers:  Presentation layer, Business layer, Persistence layer, and the Database layer.

There are four components in MVC such as Model, View, Controller, Front Controller, or DispatcherServlet Class.

Development

Along with dynamic web pages and RESTFUL web services, Spring Boot can also develop other applications.

Dynamic web pages and RESTFUL web services are developed using Spring MVC.

Advance your career as a MEAN stack developer with the Full Stack Web Developer - MEAN Stack Master's Program. Enroll now!
Conclusion
In this article, we discussed some of the key differences between Spring and Spring Boot and how we can use them based on our requirements. We also discussed Spring Boot and Spring MVC along with their existing purposes. Every framework has its importance based on the requirements. To know more about Spring, Spring Boot, and Spring MVC, you can go through the Full Stack Web Development Course provided by Simplilearn. The courses in this program are designed to help you master both the front-end and back-end with different technologies and tools like AngularMVC and SpringBoot.

Simplilearn also offers free online skill-up courses in several domains, from data science and business analytics to software development, AI, and machine learning. You can take up any of these free courses to upgrade your skills and improve your career prospects.
